tstest He Ste Wer—(TA)04/0007/2003—20 REGISTERED NO. DL—(N)04/0007/2003—20

 

JRNd a Ista
The Gazette of Gudia

Haft. -S1.Vel.-3.-28092020-222064
CG-DL-E-28092020-222064

TAIN
EXTRAORDINARY
a7 I[— as 1
PART II — Section 1
wife a venriera
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

 

 

We 55] as fees, daar, faa 28, 2020/aTf 6, 1942 (TH)
No. 58] | NEW DELHI, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2020/ASVINA 6, 1942 (SAKA)

 

 

3a am a fir oss Get ct ore 3 fared fee ae eT Gao S wT tal a ae |

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation.

 

 

MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE
(Legislative Department)

New Delhi, the 28th September, 2020/Asvina 6, 1942 (Saka)

The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the
28th September, 2020 and is hereby published for general information: —

THE BILATERAL NETTING OF QUALIFIED FINANCIAL
CONTRACTS ACT, 2020

No. 30 oF 2020
[28th September, 2020.]

An Act to ensure financial stability and promote competitiveness in Indian financial
markets by providing enforceability of bilateral netting of qualified financial
contracts and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-first Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—

CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY

1. (J) This Act may be called the Bilateral Netting of Qualified Financial Contracts
Act, 2020.

(2)It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification
in the Official Gazette, appoint, and different dates may be appointed for different provisions
of this Act.

Short title and
commencement.
Definitions.

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part T—

 

 

2. (/) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) "administration" means proceedings of the nature of placing under
administration and includes imposition of moratorium, reorganisation, winding up,
liquidation (including any compulsory winding up procedure or proceeding), insolvency,
bankruptcy, composition with creditors, receivership, conservatorship or any
proceedings of nature similar to or resulting in any of the foregoing, initiated or
commenced under any law for the time being in force, against a qualified financial
market participant;

(6) "administration practitioner" means the liquidator, receiver, trustee,
conservator, resolution professional or any other person or entity, by whatever name
called, which administers the affairs of a party subject to administration under any law
for the time being in force;

(c) "authority" means the Central Government or any of the regulatory authorities
as specified in the First Schedule;

(d) "banking institution" means,—

(i) scheduled bank as defined in clause (e) of section 2 of the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934; and

(i) any other bank as the Reserve Bank of India may specify;

(e) "close-out netting" means a process involving termination of obligations
under a qualified financial contract with a party in default and subsequent combining
of positive and negative replacement values into a single net payable or receivable as
set out in section 6;

(f) "collateral" means,—

(i) money, in the form of cash, credited to an account in any currency, ora
similar claim for repayment of money, such as a money market deposit;

(i) securities of any kind, including debt and equity securities;
(iii) guarantees, letters of credit and obligations to reimburse; and

(iv) any asset commonly used as collateral under any law for the time
being in force;

(g)" collateral arrangement" means any margin, collateral or security arrangement
or other credit enhancement related to or forming part of a netting agreement or one or
more qualified financial contracts to which a netting agreement applies, and includes, —

(i) a pledge or any other form of security interest in collateral, whether
possessory or non-possessory;

(i) a title transfer collateral arrangement; and

(iii) any guarantee, letter of credit or reimbursement obligation by or to a
party to one or more qualified financial contracts, in respect of those qualified
financial contracts; or a netting agreement;

(fA) "insolvent party" means the party to a qualified financial contract in relation
to which insolvency, winding up, liquidation, resolution, administration or similar
proceedings have been instituted under any law for the time being in force in India or
under the laws of any other country, including of its incorporation;

(é) "margin" means the amount, form and type of collateral required as a
performance bond for the purchase, sale or carrying of a qualified financial contract
and includes—

(A) initial margin which protects the transacting parties from potential
future exposure likely to arise from future changes in the mark-to-market
value of the qualified financial contract during the close-out and replace
the position in the event of counterparty default, and

2 of 1934.
41 of 1999.

23 of 2013.

50 of 2019.

2 of 1934.
4 of 1938.

10 of 1949.
42 of 1956.

Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3

 

 

(B) variation margin which protects the transacting parties from the
current exposure that has already been incurred by one of the parties from
changes in the mark-to-market value of the qualified financial contract
after the transaction has been executed;

(/) "netting" means determination of net claim or obligations after setting off or
adjusting all the claims or obligations based or arising from mutual dealings between
the parties to qualified financial contracts and includes close-out netting;

(k) "netting agreement" means an agreement that provides for netting, and
includes,—

(i) an agreement that provides for the netting of amounts due under two or
more netting agreements; and

(ii) a collateral arrangement relating to or forming part of a netting
agreement;

(4 "non-insolvent party" means the party to a qualified financial contract that is
not the insolvent party;

(m) “notification” means a notification published in the Official Gazette and the
term "notify" shall be construed accordingly;

(7) "qualified financial contract" means a qualified financial contract notified by
the authority under clause (a) of section 4;

(o) "qualified financial market participant" includes,—

(i) a banking institution, or a non-banking financial company, or such
other financial institution which is subject to regulation or prudential supervision
by the Reserve Bank of India;

(i) an individual, partnership firm, company, or any other person or body
corporate whether incorporated under any law for the time being in force in India
or under the laws of any other country and includes any international or regional
development bank or other international or regional organisation;

(iii) an insurance or reinsurance company which is subject to regulation
or prudential supervision by the Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India established under the Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority Act, 1999;

(iv) a pension fund regulated by the Pension Fund Regulatory and
Development Authority established under the Pension Fund Regulatory and
Development Authority Act, 2013;

(v) a financial institution regulated by the International Financial Services
Centres Authority established under the International Financial Services Centres
Authority Act, 2019; and

(vi) any other entity notified by the relevant authority under clause (6) of
section 4;

(p) "Schedule" means the First Schedule or the Second Schedule to this Act;

(q) "title transfer collateral arrangement" means a margin, collateral or security
arrangement related to a netting agreement based on the transfer of title to collateral,
whether by outright sale or by way of security, including a sale and repurchase agreement,
securities lending agreement, securities, buy or sell-back agreement or an irregular
pledge.

(2) Words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in

the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, the Insurance Act, 1938, the Banking Regulation
Act,1949, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Banking Companies (Acquisition
Applicability
of Act.

Powers of
authority.

Enforceability
of netting.

4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part T—

 

 

and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer
of Undertakings) Act, 1980, the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Foreign
Exchange Management Act,1999, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority
Act, 1999, the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, the Companies Act, 2013, the
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 2013 and the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in those
enactments.

CHAPTERII
APPLICATION OF ACT

3. The provisions of this Act shall apply to a qualified financial contract entered into
on a bilateral basis between qualified financial market participants, either under a netting
agreement or otherwise, where at least one of such participants shall be an entity regulated
by an authority specified in the First Schedule.

4. The relevant authority may, by notification,—

(a) designate any bilateral agreement or contract or transaction, or type of contract
regulated by it, as qualified financial contract:

Provided that the contract, so designated under this clause, shall not include
any contract,—

(i) entered into between such parties and on such terms as the Central
Government may, by notification, specify; or

(i) entered into on multilateral basis in accordance with the provisions of
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Payment and Settlement
Systems Act, 2007;

(b) specify any entity regulated by it, as a qualified financial market participant
to deal in qualified financial contracts.

5. (/) Netting of the qualified financial contract shall be enforceable—

(a) where such contract is entered into with a netting agreement, in accordance
with the terms of the netting agreement:

Provided that the inclusion of any non-qualified financial contract in a netting
agreement shall not invalidate the enforceability of netting of qualified financial contract
under such agreement; or

(6) where such contract is entered into without a netting agreement, in accordance
with the provisions of section 6.

(2) A qualified financial contract shall not be void and shall be deemed never to have
been void or unenforceable by reason of any law for the time being in force.

(3) Close-out netting of a qualified financial contract shall be enforceable against an
insolvent party, and, wherever applicable, against a guarantor or other person providing
collateral or security for a party and shall not be affected or stopped or otherwise limited
by:—

(4) the appointment of, or any application for the appointment of, an administration
practitioner, or

(i) applicability of any provision of law relating to administration, or
(iii) any other provision of law that may be applicable to an insolvent party.

(4) Where a qualified financial market participant is subject to administration, then
notwithstanding,—

(4) any stay, injunction, avoidance, moratorium or similar proceedings or any
other order of a court, tribunal or authority, or

5 of 1970.
40 of 1980.
15 of 1992.
42 of 1999.
41 of 1999.
51 of 2007.
18 of 2013.
23 of 2013.
31 of 2016.

42 of 1956.
51 of 2007.
Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 5

 

 

(i) any order of adjudication or dissolution or winding up or resolution or
insolvency, or

(iii) any rule, regulation, scheme, direction, guideline, circular or order,

made or issued under any law for the time being in force, close-out netting shall be applicable
and nothing contained therein shall affect the validity of close-out netting under this Act.

(5) The amount payable or other claims to be made in accordance with the close-out
netting under this Act shall be final, irrevocable and binding upon the parties to a qualified
financial contract and upon the administration practitioner, of the party in administration.

CHAPTER III
INVOCATION OF CLOSE-OUT NETTING

6. (1) Close-out netting may be commenced by a notice given by one party to the other
party of a qualified financial contract upon the occurrence of an event of default with respect
to the other party or a termination event that may, in certain circumstances, occur automatically
as specified in the netting agreement:

Provided that where any one of the parties to a netting agreement is subject to
administration, then no prior notice to or consent of the party in insolvency, winding up,
liquidation, administration or resolution proceeding, or to the administration practitioner of
such proceeding, shall be required.

Explanation —F¥ or the purposes of this sub-section, —

(é) "event of default" means failure to pay or deliver or honour the obligations of
a qualified financial contract, or bankruptcy, or any other event as may be agreed upon
by the parties in the agreement; and

(i) "termination event" means the occurrence of any event mentioned in the
netting agreement which gives one or both parties the right to terminate relevant
transactions under that agreement.

(2) The parties to a qualified financial contract shall ensure that all obligations owed
by one party to another party under a qualified financial contract are reduced to or replaced
with single net amount which has the following effect, namely: —

(a) the termination, liquidation or acceleration of any present or future payment
or delivery rights or obligations arising under or in connection with any one or more
qualified financial contracts to which a netting agreement applies;

(6) the calculation or estimation of a close-out value, market value, liquidation
value or replacement value in respect of each right and obligation or group of rights
and obligations terminated, liquidated or accelerated under clause (a) and the
conversion of each such value into a single currency; and

(c) the determination of the net balance of the values calculated under clause (5),
whether by operation of set-off or otherwise, giving rise to the obligation of one party
to pay an amount equal to the net balance to the other party.

(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of any law for the time being in force requiring
the realisation, appropriation or liquidation of collateral, and unless otherwise agreed by the
parties, the realisation, appropriation or liquidation of collateral under a collateral arrangement
shall take effect without any requirement of prior notice to, or consent from, any party,
person or entity.

(4) Close-out netting shall be applicable to all qualified financial market participants
who are parties to a qualified financial contract notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any law specified in the Second Schedule or any other law pursuant to
which any qualified financial market participant has been incorporated, constituted or is
regulated.

Invocation of
close-out
netting.
Net amount.

Limitations
on powers of
administration
practitioner.

Power to
amend
Schedules.

Provisions of
this Act to
override other
laws.

Power to
remove
difficulties.

6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part T—

 

 

7. (1) Where parties to the qualified financial contract enter into a netting agreement,
the net amount payable under the close-out netting shall be determined in accordance with
the terms of the netting agreement entered into by the parties.

(2) In the absence of the netting agreement, where the parties to a qualified financial
contract fail to agree on the sum with regard to the net amount payable under the close-out
netting, such sum shall be determined through arbitration.

CHAPTERIV
LIMITATIONS ON POWERS OF ADMINISTRATION PRACTITIONER
8. The administration practitioner shall not render or seek to render ineffective,—

(a) any transfer, substitution or exchange of cash, collateral or any other interests
under or in connection with a netting agreement between the insolvent party and the
non-insolvent party to a qualified financial contract; or

(6) any payment or delivery obligation incurred by the insolvent party and
owing to the non-insolvent party under or in connection with a netting agreement on
the grounds of it constituting a preference including a fraudulent preference or a
transfer for undervalue, including during a suspect period by the insolvent party to
the non-insolvent party.

Explanation —For the purposes of this clause, "suspect period" means the
relevant period referred to in sub-section (4) of section 43 of the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016 in respect of "preferential transaction" and in sub-section (/)
of section 46 of the said Code in respect of "undervalued transaction".

CHAPTER V
MISCELLANEOUS

9. (1) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do,
it may, by notification, add to or otherwise amend the First Schedule or the Second Schedule
and thereupon, the First Schedule or the Second Schedule, as the case may be, shall be
deemed to have been amended accordingly.

(2) Every notification issued under sub-section (/) shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is issued, before each House of Parliament while it is in session, for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive
sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the notification or both
Houses agree that the notification should not be issued, the notification shall thereafter
have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything
previously done under that notification.

10. The provisions of this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent
therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having
effect by virtue of any such law.

11. (/) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Central
Government may, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to it to be necessary or expedient
for removing the difficulty:

Provided that no order shall be made after the expiry of a period of three years from the
date of commencement of this Act.

(2) Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made,
before each House of Parliament.

31 of 2016.
Sec. 1]

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

 

 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE
[See sections 2(/) (c), (p) and 9(/)]

 

SL No.

Name of the authority

Act No.

 

@

2)

GB)

 

The Reserve Bank of India, established under section 3 of the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.

The Securities and Exchange Board of India, established under
section 3 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
Act, 1992.

The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
India, established under section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory
and Development Authority Act, 1999.

The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority,
established under section 3 of the Pension Fund Regulatory
and Development Authority Act, 2013.

The International Financial Services Centres Authority
established under section 4 of the International Financial
Services Centres Authority Act, 2019.

2 of 1934.

15 of 1992.

Al of 1999.

23 of 2013.

50 of 2019.

 
THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY

[Parr II—Sec. 1]

 

 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE
[See sections 6(4) and 9(/)]

 

 

 

SL No. Name of the enactment Act No.
() (2) 6)
1. The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 2 of 1934.
2. The Insurance Act, 1938. 4 of 1938.
3. The Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 10 of 1949.
4. The State Bank of India Act, 1955. 23 of 1955.
5. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. 42 of 1956.
6. The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings)
Act, 1970. 5 of 1970.
7. The Regional Rural Bank Act, 1976. 21 of 1976.
8. The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings)
Act, 1980. AO of 1980.
9. The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 15 of 1992.
10. The Foreign Exchange Management Act,1999. 42 of 1999.
11. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999. 41 of 1999.
12. The Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007. 51 of 2007.
13. The Companies Act, 2013. 18 of 2013.
14. The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority 23 of 2013.
Act, 2013.
15. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 31 of 2016.

 

DR. G. NARAYANA RAJU,
Secretary to the Govt. of India.

 

UPLOADED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI-110002
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI-110054.

MGIPMRND—867GI—28-09-2020.

  

NGARAI
