Subject Under Administrative Control
Work Allocated to Department of Commerce in accordance with the Allocation of Business Rules, 1961

Ministry Of Commerce And Industry (Vanijya Aur Udyog Mantralaya)

Department Of Commerce (Vanijya Vibhag)
The mandate of the Department of Commerce is regulation and development of India’s international trade and commerce.

I. International Trade
International Trade and Commercial Policy including tariff and non-tariff barriers.
International Agencies connected with Trade Policy (e.g. UNCTAD, ESCAP, ECA, ECLA, EEC, EFTA, GATT/WTO, ITC and CFC)**. All issues connected to the WTO including interpretation of WTO rules and its dispute settlement mechanism.
International Commodity Agreements other than agreements connected to wheat, sugar, jute and cotton.
Residual work of Tariff Commission.
II. Foreign Trade (Goods & Services)
All matters connected to foreign trade.
Foreign Trade Policy and Control, excluding matters connected to-
import of feature films;
export of Indian films- both feature length and short; and
import and distribution of cine-film (unexposed) and other goods required by the film industry.
Setting up of Agricultural Export Zone (AEZ) and 100% Export Oriented Units (EoUs) including policy and regulatory framework and all other related matters.
Development, expansion of export production and regulation of foreign trade in relation to all commodities and products (excluding jute products and handicrafts).
Matters connected to Export Promotion Board, Board of Trade and International Trade Advisory Committee.
Matters connected to concerned Export Promotion Councils/ Export Promotion Organizations.
Coordination for export infrastructure.
Projects and programmes for assisting the export efforts.
III. State Trading
Policies of State Trading and performance of organisations established for the purpose.
Production, distribution (for domestic consumption and exports) and development of plantation crops, viz., tea, coffee, rubber, FCV tobacco*, spices (production development and export promotion of cardamom & pepper and export activities of all other spices). Export promotion of cashew and tobacco & their allied products.
Regulation and export promotion of Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco and export promotion of all other types of tobacco & its allied products.
Processing and distribution for domestic consumption and exports of Instant Tea and Instant Coffee.
IV. Special Economic Zones
All matters connected to development, operation and maintenance of special economic zones and units in special economic zones, including foreign trade policy, fiscal regime, investment policy, other economic policy and regulatory framework.
{Note: All fiscal concessions and policy issues having financial implications are decided with the concurrence of the Department of Expenditure/Revenue (Ministry of Finance) or failing such concurrence, with the approval of the Cabinet.}
V. Cadre Management Of Specific Central Services
Cadre Management and all matters pertaining to training and manpower planning for the following services-
Indian Trade Service;
Indian Supply Service;
Indian Inspection Service.
VI. Attached And Subordinate Offices
The following are attached and subordinate offices under this Department-

Attached Offices
Directorate General of Anti-Dumping and Allied Duties (DGAD).
Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT).
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals (DGS&D).
Subordinate Offices
Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics(DGCI&S).
Office of Development Commissioner of Special Economic Zones-
Cochin Special Economic Zone, Kochi.
Falta Special Economic Zone, Kolkata.
Kandla Special Economic Zone, Gujarat.
MEPZ Special Economic Zone, Chennai.
Noida Special Economic Zone, Noida.
Santa Cruz Special Economic Zone, Mumbai.
Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Visakhapatnam.
VII. Statutory/autonomous Bodies / Public Sector Undertakings / Other Organisations
The following are Statutory/Autonomous Bodies, Public Sector Undertakings and Other Autonomous Organisations under the oversight of this Department

Statutory/autonomous Bodies
Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA).
Coffee Board.
Export Inspection Council of India (EIC).
Rubber Board.
Spices Board.
Tea Board.
The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA).
Tobacco Board.
Public Sector Undertakings
ECGC (Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Limited).
ITPO (India Trade Promotion Organization).
MMTC Limited (formerly Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Limited).
PEC Limited (formerly The Projects and Equipment Corporation of India Limited).
STC Limited (State Trading Corporation of India Ltd.).
STCL Limited (formerly Spices Trading Corporation Ltd.).
Other Autonomous Organisations
Footwear Design & Development Institute (FDDI).
Indian Diamond Institute (IDI).
Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT).
Indian Institute of Packaging (IIP).
National Centre for Trade Information (NCTI).
Price Stabilisation Fund Trust (PSFT).
VIII. Acts/ Legislations
Acts/ Legislations directly pertaining to Department of Commerce
Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) Act, 1985.
Coffee Board Act, 1942.
Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963.
Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992.
Rubber Board Act, 1947.
Spices Board Act, 1986.
Tea Board Act, 1953.
The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) Act, 1972.
The Special Economic Zones Act, 2005.
Tobacco Board Act, 1975.
The Full Form Of Abbreviations Used At Sl.no.a.i.2 Hereinabove Is As Under:-
UNCTAD – United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
ESCAP – Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.
ECA – Export Credit Agencies.
EEC – European Economic Community.
EFTA – European Free Trade Association.
GATT – General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
WTO – World Trade Organisation.
ITC – International Trade Centre
CFC – Controlled Foreign Corporation.